Git is is an extremely popular version control system that is at the heart of a wide variety of high-profile projects. Git is installed and maintained on your local system (rather than in the cloud) and gives you a self-contained record of your ongoing programming versions. It can be used completely exclusive of any cloud-hosting service — you don’t even need internet access, except to download it. Compared to other version control systems, Git is responsive, easy to use, and inexpensive (free, actually). Git is also specially designed to work well with text files — which, if you think about it, is what code actually is. But one thing that really sets Git apart is its branching model. Branching allows you to create independent local branches in your code. This means you can try out new ideas, set aside branches for production work, jump back to earlier branches, and easily delete, merge, and recall branches at the click of a button. And that’s it. Git is a high-quality version control system.



GitHub is designed as a Git repository hosting service.GitHub hosts Git repositories and provides developers with tools to ship better code through command line features, issues (threaded discussions), pull requests, code review, or the use of a collection of free and for-purchase apps in the GitHub Marketplace. Unlike Git, GitHub is exclusively cloud-based. Also unlike Git, GitHub is a for-profit service (although basic repository-hosting features are available at no cost to those who are willing to create a user profile, making GitHub a popular choice for open-source projects). With collaboration layers like the GitHub flow, a community of 15 million developers, and an ecosystem with hundreds of integrations, GitHub changes the way software is built.GitHub builds collaboration directly into the development process. Work is organized into repositories where developers can outline requirements or direction and set expectations for team members. Then, using the GitHub flow, developers simply create a branch to work on updates, commit changes to save them, open a pull request to propose and discuss changes, and merge pull requests once everyone is on the same page.



Redux is a predictable state container designed to help you write JavaScript apps that behave consistently across client, server, and native environments and are easy to test.While it’s mostly used as a state management tool with React, you can use it with any other JavaScript framework or library. It’s lightweight at 2KB (including dependencies), so you don’t have to worry about it making your application’s asset size bigger.With Redux, the state of your application is kept in a store, and each component can access any state that it needs from this store.State management is essentially a way to facilitate communication and sharing of data across components. It creates a tangible data structure to represent the state of your app that you can read from and write to. That way, you can see otherwise invisible states while you’re working with them. State management gets messy as the app gets complex. This is why you need a state management tool like Redux that makes it easier to maintain these states. When using Redux with React, states will no longer need to be lifted up. This makes it easier for you to trace which action causes any change. ALso remember that Redux makes the state predictable, is maintainable and debugging is easy in Redux.